Description: Since Ethereum is a generic smart contract platform, any number of applications can be built on top of it, decentralized exchange of value, multi-party agreement and notably, fundraising. The first project to raise funds via Ethereum was Augur, a “decentralized oracle & prediction market protocol”. On August 15th 2015, at block #88,090, the Augur token sale contract was deployed at augurTokensale.aetheriablockmuseum.eth. From this block, until October 1st of the same year, anyone could send ETH to that contract in exchange for what would be called REP tokens. The price was not fixed per ETH, but instead, a total of 8.8M REP would be distributed proportionally to all participants at the end of the participation period. This would be known as an “uncapped” sale. Bitcoin was also accepted, but managed separately. In total, over $5.5M USD was contributed, and the 8.8M REP distributed to over 300 distinct contributors. Augur notably sold 1M of the ETH it raised at a time when Ethereum was worth $0.70. While some argued that it showed a lack of belief in the underlying platform (Ethereum), Joey Krug, the creator of Augur, rightfully pointed out that the purpose of the token sale should be to fund development of the Augur platform, not speculate on future values of the cryptocurrencies used for fundraising.

The ambitious goal of Augur was to build one of the fundamental building blocks for the web3: a decentralized prediction market where speculators could bet on future events (sports, political, weather, and more) and cut the middleman entirely. This building block could then be used to build more complex applications such as decentralized insurance products (insuring farmers against bad weather). While Augur was the first project to raise funds on Ethereum, it took nearly 3 years before the product launched on mainnet on July 9th of 2018. About 2 weeks later, on July 24th 2018, the team transferred the ownership of the mainnet Augur escape hatch to a burn1.aetheriablockmuseum.eth. Nobody owns the private keys to this address, hence anything sent to that address can be considered “burned”. In the case of Augur, this was another step toward complete decentralization of the platform.

As of early 2019, there are over 6000 ETH locked in the Augur system.

Source: https://www.coinmama.com/guide/history-of-ethereum
http://augur.strikingly.com/blog/the-augur-crowdsale
https://toshitimes.com/augur-ethereum-dapp-worth-millions-for-event-prediction-and-betting/
https://cryptoslate.com/augur-sold-1-million-ethereum-at-0-7-why-experts-say-it-was-the-right-decision/
